Diane: How are you, I'm good. Did you
Shawn Phalen: Happen to have group tonight or did you see a physician.
Diane: No. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: So did you check in early to
Diane: Yeah, I checked in. Well, I thought I had an appointment with john today to talk about something. So I checked in over two o'clock.
Okay. All right. But you didn't have an appointment with him.
Diane: I guess it wasn't like written down, but it was something that like we I can talk to him about tomorrow so
Diane: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: OK. So, with this session. I just need to ask you, background questions.
Diane: Okay, and probably some of them you've been asked before. Okay, so it's just kind of like getting some background info from you.
Diane: All right.
Shawn Phalen: So tell me what what brought you to write her, like, why did you choose.
Diane: Well, um, I have had like chronic pain for for many years and I was taking pain to the for it. And I wanted to stop taking the pain pills. So I went to. I started going to
Diane: Suboxone group here locally.
Diane: And they recommended by heart, because they weren't going to get the doctor was leaving
Diane: They, they didn't. They didn't do like chronic pain groups and stuff like that. They actually I didn't get really much out of it. So,
Diane: Now that I've been in it. I'm learning so much more about how to deal with it because my my problem for the longest time is I always worried that the pain is going to get worse, which I know it will, and like I used to not be able to. I used to get like depressed and
Diane: Just like sad that you know sometimes my pain holding back from a lot of things. And it's just me and
Diane: My three kids, my youngest is five night. Second, is he six and then my daughter is 17
Diane: So I don't have time to release. You know, so I just get depressed and I get in
Diane: They didn't really help me with that. So okay, so that kind of way originally was because the doctor was leaving
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so are you on Suboxone right now.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah okay and tell me what is your chronic pain from
Diane: I have three discs out in my, in my neck. I have
Diane: Osteoarthritis scoliosis fibromyalgia and
Diane: I think that's it.
Diane: I've seen different doctors and I'm I haven't really accepted that I even have fibromyalgia, but I know I do because
Diane: I have all the symptoms of it and here recently I've, I've noticed like just certain points on my body that have never heard before, and never bothered me before, just
Diane: It's like radiating pain, my finger today hurt. And then my ankle last night and you know the Dr. Jackson helps a lot with that kind of stuff to with the insight timer in the chair yoga.
Shawn Phalen: And again, how long have you had the chronic pain.
Diane: And it's been about
Diane: 2000 and
Diane: Probably 2004
Diane: Is when it when I started having the pain and then like between 2005 and seven is when I started going to the doctor and and it's just gotten steadily worse Jensen.
Shawn Phalen: Did you have any kind of an accident, like
Diane: Honestly, I don't know what what how it originally started with the add one discount and then another one. And then these two are causing this third one to go out. So I think it's just over time. And I've had a lot of trauma.
Diane: In been in domestic violence, you know, relationships, and so it could have happened then. And I carry a lot of my stress in my neck right should even be. Yeah, I don't know, I just
Diane: Know what I'm not really stressed out my pain is way better. Right.
Shawn Phalen: And are you are you working now.
Diane: I don't currently work right now I take care of the kids, my son, my youngest is on the spectrum my six year old has ADHD.
Okay.
Diane: And how's your 17 year old. She's doing good. She, she's
Diane: My boys his dad got convicted and molesting her from the age of nine to 12 so that happened in 2016 when all like came out.
Diane: And
Diane: She's doing much better now minute counseling and
Diane: You know she's brand new stuff with positive people. And she's definitely definitely a lot stronger and I'm very proud of her. All right, good.
Shawn Phalen: And then for liquid depression. Have you ever had any suicidal attempts or suicidal thoughts.
Diane: I've never had those at all. No, and I think that the main reason why is because of my kids like I just, I'm all they have, you know, so I've never really thought of that. I don't think that that's a solution for it. Plus, that's really selfish to do your family, you know,
Diane: Can you hear me.
Shawn Phalen: You broke up. I'm sorry.
Diane: I said, no, I have it. I think it's really selfish to do that to your family and I, I'm all my kids have so nothing like nothing. I don't think I've ever been that depressed, where I didn't want to live anymore. It's more like
Diane: Like hopelessness and like you know like I just don't see the light, but I haven't been like that since really Suboxone had changed my life. I think a lot of the reason why I was like that was because of the pain pills. Yes, I know. And how many
Shawn Phalen: Said, were you on the pain pills from like starting around
Diane: Oh, six. Yeah, it was often on from
Diane: About 2006 yes
Diane: And then, of course,
Diane: I would be I would get cortisone shots and I didn't really I didn't like being on them anyways and
Diane: Then I would get the cortisone shots and those ones mess me up and I just kind of gave up on doctors for a little bit, because I'm like, well, they're even helping me they're just making me worse. And so, but then I got, I had to get back on them because I had to seizures like
Diane: The first seizure. I had I tore my rotator cuff, because I just fell backwards. I don't know how I did it. And then I started on those again but
Diane: It was intermittent and they almost made me feel worse, like the longer I was on them, the more hurt. Yeah.
Diane: So my friends told me about that program and she said that the Suboxone really helped her with her pain and the only way of course for me to get the Suboxone wants to do this program.
Diane: But it's already gone to me. I'm like, Well, maybe I can benefit from it but
Diane: I know I put I put a lot of work into it because I wanted to get better and I wanted to understand things more and, you know, but they didn't offer as much as I, I'd hoped.
Shawn Phalen: Um, so do you feel like you were abusing the pills or was it just you just wanted to get off of them.
Diane: I feel like my I feel like at one point I was, but I think it's because like I said, the pain was so bad, even with them.
Diane: That are within that I just felt like I needed to either take more and then of course when you get addicted to them. Your body goes through the withdrawal so
Diane: I'm like I at least need to take them today don't have the with jaws and I can function every day and then just became a cycle and the cycle. And I wanted to get out of it.
Shawn Phalen: And how long have you been on the Suboxone since
Diane: June of
Diane: Know, January, I don't remember January 2019 okay so like a year.
Diane: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, good. And then any, um, this addiction run in your family at all or
Diane: No, I mean, my, my dad smoke pot any drink beer. But it wasn't
Diane: Nothing too bad. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: And then any Jeff siblings.
Diane: Yeah, I have a brother and older brother and are you guys close. Yeah, I mean, my mom and my brother are really close. It was just a three, pretty much, growing up. So, yeah.
Shawn Phalen: So then I'm with the domestic violence relationship. How long were you and not for
Diane: I was in
Diane: To back to back from around 2007
Diane: To 2012 is when I started my other one. So it's from 2007 to 2016 I was also molested by my my step dad and I hadn't I hadn't told anybody or really dealt with it at all. So my me and my daughter's dad got divorced
Diane: When it all kind of came out because I just, I couldn't handle it. I, I tried going to counseling and it was just, you know, not doing it for me and
Diane: Anyway, and then I have, of course, ended up in the abusive relationship. And then from there, my self esteem and self worth went more down and down and down and
Diane: I got with my boys his dad and then that one was like that one was horrible. That one felt more like a prison. And
Diane: Yeah, but I got out of it only because of what he did to my daughter, like, you know, like I was forced out of it, which is good. As soon as you said something. I'm like, well, then we're calling the cops but
Diane: I was forced into it, which I think was a good thing because I don't think I'd ever do it on my own. I would have never left on my own.
Diane: Fortunate that it was it was that way. Yeah, are you married him no
Diane: Oh yeah we I was married to him. But we're not married. I'm not married now. Okay, see the Boise.
Shawn Phalen: Is your dad and do
Diane: Yeah, he was in prison for for a while, he actually gets out this month on the 11th, but he's not allowed to be in our county. I'm hoping that we don't have to see him. I'm trying to do the paperwork to
Diane: Terminate rights and change names and
Shawn Phalen: How long was he in for
Diane: Little four years. Little less than four years. He got sentenced to six and then
Diane: Went September 15 of 2016 units out this year on the 11th or this month on the 11th.
Diane: Okay, so not long enough. But you know when it matter what how how long he was in there, the damage was done right.
Shawn Phalen: And do you. So are there. Do you have any legal issues from any thing that you're still dealing with or
Diane: The only thing that I am dealing with this is the stuff with him and making sure that the divorce and everything is finalized before he gets out and that's it. I've never been in trouble. I've never gone to another. None of that probation jail, none of that. Okay. And any financial issues.
Diane: Not really. I mean I i I'm pretty responsible. I feel like okay I definitely am not going to be buying my own home anytime soon. But yeah.
Okay.
Diane: And what about friends. Do you have a good support group. I feel like I do. I'm really close with my mom and I have a few friends that I'm that I'm
Diane: I I'm more of like a I'd rather be home and not socializing and not just because people are very disappointing.
Diane: But, um, the, the few friends that I do have are positive. Like, I don't like to have any, any kind of negativity or drama, you know, still people
Diane: In my life and most of them have I've been friends with for a long time, and they've known you know everything that's gone on and it helped me supporting me through it. So yeah, I have a few really close friends and my mom.
Shawn Phalen: Does your mom lives near you. Are you guys close in proximity
Diane: Yes, she's about to about 20 miles from everybody else, cuz I live in gassy. But yeah, I see her at least three times a week and we talk every day.
Shawn Phalen: That's good. And then you mentioned that you had done therapy in the past, but you didn't feel it was clicking for you.
Diane: Now, and I don't know if that was me because I wasn't really ready for it mentally and emotionally or if I just didn't feel comfortable with the people that I was talking to you because I'd even gone to counseling and rape crisis which helps with trauma and all that sexual abuse and
Diane: I was doing that for a while, but I just, I don't know, I just
Diane: I feel like sometimes
Diane: Maybe I'm like, No, I'm good. I don't need that. And then, I really do. But I always
Diane: Like daily I really try to to find something about my life or me that I want to uproot improve on or fix or, you know, I always try to do that because
Diane: I've because I've been in shitty situations and I know what it's like to be there. I'm so grateful for what I do have now and I really am just trying to just
Diane: Not just stay this way, but just keep going like this, you know, ready for that for the last
Diane: Forever. I've been just surviving and I don't want to do that, you know, yeah.
Shawn Phalen: So what kinda and so you're doing the you're doing the group right for
Diane: Yeah, and so how's that going for you. I like it a lot. I really do. I like Dr. Jackson I like I like everybody there. I feel really comfortable with it and
Diane: They always have a topic that I, you know, I'd like to learn about and then once you once a week. I have a babysitter. And I go do something like either with my mom or friends or me, my, my daughter will go to the movies or something and then
Diane: I always give myself like a day during the week and morning to where I go to the river or go on a hike or just get out
Diane: Of out of my head, and you're even just driving and listening to music or something because I was it for a long time. I didn't. I was so focused on getting the house.
Diane: Perfect. I had like OCD for a while and just everything has to be in its place and organized and because it was the only thing I can control. I think right yeah so now
Diane: Now my my house is a lot more messy, which is good for me and and and I really had tried to slow down a lot because I really stress affects me pretty bad physically too. Right. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: So then, for your, for your little guy who's on the spectrum. Do you have services through his school. Yeah.
Diane: Through his school and there's a place called the regional center and they offer like behavior therapy respite care they
Diane: What else do they have. Oh, the doctor. The doctor that does the assessments do is always helping me with things and could there's a, you know, once I get one thing under control. He moves on to something else. So it's constantly something, but it is getting a lot better and I am
Diane: Before I just felt like again like hopeless. Like, I don't know what to do. I don't know how to. So I really want to start going to school to learn more about it, to help him and me and then maybe eventually I can, you know, start working with kids like that, or even adults but
Diane: Yeah, it's been a process. Yeah, he get services here and at school or
Shawn Phalen: At home. Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. So kind of like behaviors like modification at home and all that. Yes. Yeah.
Diane: Okay, but he's doing well. Yeah, he's doing much better. He was, he was nonverbal for a long time. So now that he's he's learning to talk a lot more he's he's able to express themselves a way differently so
Diane: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: And then, okay, and then your other son has ADHD. Yeah.
Diane: Originally they put him on the spectrum. And then I'm like, it's let's do another assessment. And now, now he's the prescribed Ritalin, which I
Diane: I don't like so. Is he taking
Diane: What he had taken it for about three days and straight and every night he had had night sweats and nightmares. And so I went back to the doctor and he said that it wasn't from the medicine. So I tried it again, and it was
Diane: He had him again. So I took. I just took them off completely. And I'm going to try to get in touch with a holistic person or somebody who can tell me like what supplements. Maybe I could use for him instead of prescription meds because I do not want him on those huh
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, and I do believe there are supplements that work well. Good. So that's, that's good. Yeah, that's a really good
That's a great option right
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so are you feeling like like the group is enough for you and
Or do you want any individual therapy at this time.
Diane: I feel like right now. I think the group is good, but like if I wanted to talk to you. Could I just make an appointment, I guess, nothing's going on where I maybe need your, your advice your help to work through something
Diane: Yeah, totally. Okay, yeah, it's absolutely available to you. So just always know that. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: If you're ever wanting to make an appointment, you just call the call center and they'll schedule you
Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, any, do you have any questions of me.
Diane: I don't really
Diane: Okay, good.
Shawn Phalen: All right, keep doing what you're doing.
Diane: Thank you. Great. And good luck. Okay, bye. All right, bye.